Agrajag's Reindeer: A Transformers Gothic

---
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/23/2371, 21:20 GMT-5.

Somewhere in the forest of illusions and ruins, I see something arc across the sky, and hit the ground in a flash.

Some of the people from my camp see it too.

We're in the process of evacuating the side of this river, where we've been posted up for weeks, because our base has informed us that the Deathclaws have made an approach.

We might outnumber them, but they still outclass us technologically: even after thousands of years of human so-called evolution, their brute-force evolution of genetic material hybridized from the entire repertoire of space and time, still wins almost every time.

----Is there any hope? A young paladin asks.
----Hoping is like breathing, recruit.

The voice of our commander is proof for us all that we're still here, we're still alive, and nothing has stopped us yet. We keep marching.

The Brotherhood of Steel, and their time-traveling offshoot, The Transformers, happen to still be engaged in producing technology that can defeat the rudimentary tools those living dinosaurs, those overgrown salamanders, have been too lazy to ever evolve.

While we have time travel and space travel, so do the Deathclaws; but they seem to have other goals than simply defeating us. In fact, they don't seem to be worried about defeating us at all.

They simply want to colonize the entire planet, overrun it with their simplistic political and social structures.

Whenever, wherever, in human history, they have seen their control waver, they simply get aggressive; they re-establish control through agression, and that's that.

In more peaceful eras, they walked among us without taking on such intimidating forms. Like the countless species of extraterrestrial to inhabit Earth before the War -- what those long-vanished alien species, such as the greys, refer to as The Great Divestment -- Deathclaws actually looked just like ordinary humans.

Grays, Mantoids, Crab-based species, Cybernetic species -- all of them walked around in humanoid bodies, as undercover agents of the Federation of Planets.

Alien species may change their appearances, in order to live on a fallen world like Earth, where extraterrestrial intelligence has not yet been officially acknowledged. But war never changes. Human limitations never really change.

Magic, we are told, doesn't exist -- although age after age, we are told stories about it, and about other races that once inhabited the earth, like Orcs and Gnomes. It's all part of the Federation's plan for earth. Part of YHVH's plan for the entire universe.

Some planets, like some trees, bear good fruit, and other planets simply don't. There's no formula to it, because life is a kind of order formed around chaos.

Before the great war and the deafening roar of nuclear fallout which could be heard even from within the Vaults -- before the greatest warriors we had began to venture out into the Wasteland -- humanity had always warred against a race of beings left over from the time of the dinosaurs, without really knowing it.

Deathclaws are just one example; seen another way, this evil race of beings existed long before the dinosaurs, and actually came to Earth from another galaxy.

That galaxy wasn't far away, but was in the same physical location as our own; it belonged to another dimension -- a place many humans call Hell.

Few stories have ever been told about this dimension.

(Place for a recap of Event Horizon.)

People suspected, throughout the ages, of course, that many of the so-called humans they dealt with weren't really all that human. But as for understanding the big picture, and what it all meant -- that mammals and lizards had always, and would always, be at war, not because they wanted to be, but due to the influence of an invisible galaxy much bigger than our own, located in the same place as our own, and much older than our own -- people had no idea.

And so there were churches like the Catholic church, perenially subect to financial corruption: that was an element of society controlled by good ol' St. Sinclair himself, wasn't it?

And it wasn't St. Sinclair's fault that he was a dinosaur, hence a bit more easily influenced by that parallel galaxy timeline, was it?

Countless extraterrestrial species had come to earth attempting to harmonize the mess of timelines caused by this other galaxy, and they had all failed.

Some of those species, like the Greys, had kept on trying anyway.

Evil can't be fought in terms of any ideology or sociopolitical organization. And this is why war exists. War exists whenever evil wins, and hate eclipses love.

Evil is untenable in physical terms: it exists as spiritual corruption, emanating from the multiversal shadow of our own galaxy, which is Hell.

And so the creatures -- not really lizard-like, not really insect-like, but ultimately just spiritually corrupted -- which have corrupted every age on earth, could never be fought in terms of their species.

The one thing about them that remained the same was their mimicry. They copied what they saw, without giving credit: like space pirates.

And they were so good at copying anything and everything mammals and reptilians ever achieved, down to the objects they carried with them, that they virtually had their own parallel reality descending toward Hell.

They could steal something from you and replicate it, and give the replica to you, keeping the original object. They could do so instantaneously, for they had power over space and time.

This wasn't because they collected the things mammals and reptilians carry; it was because they used, programmed, and otherwise maintained their control over the deluded part of humanity, with the help of the so-called folded-up dimensions inside of every occupant of space -- animal, vegetable, or mineral -- which String Theory was just beginning to discover.

It just so happens that the general public was just beginning to become aware, through String Theory, of those extra dimensions, and of the multiverse, when the bombs went off.

(It was this modality of control-through-possessions that inspired YHVH, the original anti-lizard, dragon-slaying Star Lord to attempt to convert both humans and reptiles alike to a religion of grace and mindfulness, and against idols.)

And as such, humanity wasn't at war simply with reptillians. Many reptillians loved the wisdom of YHVH. They were inherently less idolatrous than mammalians.

It was the rebellious ones who killed the world. The ones who simply wanted power. Who hated love in all its forms. Who worshipped material reality, and loved money.

There was nothing to which YHVH's beloved creation, The Faithful, could compare those thoughtless enemies. Once upon a time, the world did simply consist of reptillians battling mammalians. But after The Conversion, the enemy became much more of a demonic, evil force. This fact alone led to the Dark Ages on planet Earth.

Though in the beginning these demons were basically reptillian, they had become more and more insect-like, over time. And yet most of the obedient species in the entire universe were bugs, or were like bugs. And so these demons branched out, becoming more like spiders or worms in their forms.

So, what could they be compared to, these beings that killed the world, leading to a nuclear war that nearly wiped out civilization?

Our team, the Transformers, had the hardest time really identifying the enemy. We only had the Chronoscopes, which could tell us when their armies were nearing us. Some of those armies took the form of Deathclaws -- lizard-like creatures grown large like dinosaurs, absolute predators. Some of their armies looked more like worms or centipedes or spiders.

Deathclaws were known to take out entire armies of our forces. We ran from them whenever possible. There were rumors of weapons in the wasteland that could eliminate them, some of them based on alien technology. But these were just rumors.

There is no light around as our team makes its way slowly through the forest, relying on those reptilian members of our team whose night vision allows them to move through the darkness.

Above us stretch the ruins of Earth before the bombs -- the decaying architectural frames of buildings and highways. Streetlights long extinguished. Windows long broken.

Crossing underneath some of these old highways, hearing the way the wind whips through the steel girders, sometimes I'm afraid they'll simply collapse. But we have our Chronoscopes to prove to us, mathematically, the ideal pathways through this wasteland. And so we know that whatever falls short of those ideals happens to be our own doubts.

We know that we have nothing to fear but our own fear.

As the old song goes, all the world's a very narrow bridge, and the most important thing is to never be afraid.

If anything were to come crashing down around us, we would see it in advance.

Our band takes a break inside the ruins of an old office building. We pass out rations. There's nothing to smoke. With my back to an old concrete wall, I can feel the joints in the skeleton of this old office building rub and connect in the breeze.

Someone lights a fire, puts on a cauldron of water to boil, and the steam creeps up through the holes in the floors above us.

People press-in close to one another.

Those who partake in alcohol pass a bottle around.

Some of the people traveling with our band are just ordinary inhabitants of the wasteland, traveling with us for protection. There are about 20 children traveling with us, all of whom stay silent and do as they're told.

The rain begins, and threatens to put out the fire. Temporary barricades are put up. The water drips slowly through the bombed-out shell of what was once an office complex, revealing secret entrances to different parts of the building.

The rain also brings certain smells to the fore: the smell of busted concrete, the smell of growing fungus and rotting leaves, and of rust.

Some of these places out in the wilderness have their own secret cities underneath them: usually wherever the extensive network of a sewer system or a subway system would allow such underground cities to flourish. There are even a few vaults lost to time underneath places like this. Before the war, the people using those vaults must have felt very clever for locating their treasures underneath shopping malls or office complexes.

Not everyone wanted to leave their vaults after even a century, when the war was just a faint memory.

Because of the armies of Deathclaws, and other hellish creatures that continue to control the wasteland to this very day, people still seek homes underground.

Our bases -- the Brotherhood of Steel's, and The Transformers' -- are also located underground. Logistically, it still makes sense to leave the topsoil to our mutual enemies.

Some groups of humans have taken to inhabiting the ruined cities, of course, following the roads that all seem to converge on one hub or another.

And, of course, other groups prefer to just travel in caravans. They might occasionally bargain for some protection from us, or from mercenary groups.

Our scryer looks at the Chronoscope and finds zero probability of any enemies heading for us, during the next 12 hours. Our commander judges that it's safe for those of us who wish to rest, to do so.

People who've been assigned to watch set up their posts, and people who are tired of trekking take to sleeping.

And that's when I sit down to write this latest journal entry, dear reader.

-------
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/24/2371, 20:24 GMT-5.

Today we marched and marched through more endless, trackless forest, until we came to a very old and dark hotel, where I sat down to write all the day's events as well as I could remember them.

Who knows what color the hotel had been painted before the war: the entire thing was charred and black. 

According to our sensors, it was built from a peculiar concrete mixture that would prove to withstand even a nuclear blast. Buildings like this aren't exactly rare, but they aren't that common either.

Inside was so vast, and so many floors were intact, that I was surprised we didn't come upon a gang of raiders using the hotel as their hideot. According to the Chronoscope, there hadn't ever been one in there, either.

Given that so much of the architecture was intact, our engineers wondered if there was any chance that this place might still have a working electrical circuit or two.

We set to work with our generators, and it turned out that we were in luck. With the lights on, the entire thing was a spectacle for sure. Lights that hadn't been turned on for centures, glowing green with so much dust.

Dust that began to move through the central heating and air, making us all cough. Not that we were worried about the dust: our sensors had already shown that it was free of nuclear fallout.

Given that the dust wasn't poisonous, we set to work looking for any signs of pre-war food to accompany our rations.

I went with the team of soldiers that scoured the ancient pantries, wary of any kind of mutated animals that might be living off of them. According to the Chronoscope, there had been populations of mutated rats, mutated ants, and other types of animal. The Chronoscope can't tell us if there's a bug population living in cocoons, or encased in eggs, or in some other form of environmentally-sensitive encasement, because that's just how quantum mechanics works.

-------
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/26/2371, 08:41 GMT-5.

After a night at the old hotel, we keep moving. The Deathclaws are drawing closer, and we have to make sure they don't pick up our scent. If they did, the civilians moving with our company would most certainly be in danger, because our company doesn't have adequate weaponry to destroy an entire brood of Deathclaws.

They aren't tracking us, because thanks to our Chronoscope, we know where they'll be before they do. The most their powers of time-travel can do is allow them to travel back to the past. They can't see the future like we do.

Our company moves silently through the trackless forest. On our map, we have the location of a settlement we made contact with last month.

They sent us a distress signal, and then communication cut out. But based on the data they sent us, we know they have a large number of civilians under the protection of a small military force.

The smell of old forest, empty time, trees falling without making a sound, accomodates us to this lonely journey.

There's an unwritten, unspoken rule of being a Wastelander: don't talk about the ghosts we've all seen on this journey. Countless people died in the nuclear holocaust. World powers spent decades talking about peacefully negotiating their interests. But in the end, the people with the solutions were too worried about shoring-up power to do anything creative about the world's problems.

We come to a big stream, almost too big to cross, and on the other side there's a lot of big boulders. It's not quite mountainous. Our map of the terrain, which is updated according to the latest environmental scan, shows us where there's a valley, and we proceed toward it.

Moving through the valley, which in some difficult spots will prove to be more of a canyon, I see some dead, mutated rats. Looks like some kind of preadator got them. Could have been a giant, mutated cat. Their insides are all hollowed-out.

When we reach the canyon, and begin to scale the cliffs, we see paintings all over the walls.

We do an environmental scan, and fire up the Chronoscope. There's faint signs of a human settlement inside a cave about a mile to the northeast.

Our commander halts us. We take a vote: do we enter the cave, or do we keep moving toward our goal?

The paintings on the walls of the canyon probably encode some signs of how peaceful these cave-dwellers are. I'm no expert. No one on our team has had any experience with the kinds of raiders that inhabit the Wasteland. So that's why we vote on it.

-------
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/28/2371, 19:35 GMT-5.

Everyone voted to explore the caves, so here we are.

There were a lot of dead, stinking carcasses of different mutated bug species at the mouth of the cave. After clearing them out, we decided to build a bonfire.

So, here I sit writing this, watching one of our lieutenants pile the dead insect carcasses onto the bonfire. It's satisfying to watch them burn. Those mutated bugs can be so annoying. You'd think they would smell bad when burnt, but nope.

We figure that anyone inhabiting the caves -- anyone peaceful -- might just venture up top to where we're burning these carcasses. We also figure that they left them there to scare off wild animals or something. Or maybe they encounter a lot of them down there.

I have to admit, the place feels haunted. 

How could anyone live in caves like this? I mean, Deathclaws don't prefer to live underground, so there's that.

We keep waiting for any signs of life from the caves. As we wait, we try to converse somewhat loudly. There's a rickety old bridge just down from where we've built our fire. According to our readings, there are no predators for miles. 

The closest brood of deathclaws is about 35 miles from us, the Chronoscope shows them to be a relatively stationary group; and those Deathclaws would have to cross that rickety old bridge to even get to us.

No chance of that. Our commander places one watch next to the bridge, and another two at the mouth of the cave.

The night is getting on, and I really feel like we should venture down into the caves. No one, nothing, has come up from them. Maybe we've found ourselves a decent location for a new base camp.

------
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/29/2371, 06:20 GMT-5.

It's morning. Our pair of watches assured us that no one emerged from the caves while we all slept. They said, however, that their sensors picked up on some activity at around 3AM. They woke our commander, and he checked it out.

Whoever it was, or whatever it was, didn't feel like venturing a little closer to the mouth of the cave. Our commander put a trace on the infrared imprint, so that we wouldn't be getting ambushed any time soon. And he ordered us all awake at 6AM, just before dawn, to take a vote on whether or not we should go after that sensor reading.

Everyone agrees that we should. We're all quite brave about things. We know that no one will save us but ourselves.

Whatever's down there is lying in wait for us, in the stillness and quiet of the cave. If they have sensors like ours they already know who we are. If it's another military company they haven't tried to reach out. If it's a group of survivors they're obviously not scanning the airwaves, either.

If it's some kind of cryptid, we're ready for that. Especially now that we know its heat signature.

So we head downward. Descending until it almost feels as though there's no way out.

Within an hour, daylight comes filtering in through the mouth of the cave. Not that any of us need it: the entire company is decked-out with infrared-gear. The Chronoscope transmits its reading to everyone's Pip Boy. We're seeing in more dimensions than just darkness and lightness.

Then comes a draft of air, ominous. We all pause.

We stay glued to our sensor readings. The same type of heat signatre from 3AM starts to approach us. The commander orders us to stay put, whispering into his radio.

Light from a primitive kerosene lantern starts to bounce off the walls of the cave, getting brighter. As quietly as possible, all of us hide behind a a nearby cavernous feature.

A man approaches. Our sensors show us what he looks like, without anyone needing to look straight at him: our Chronoscope simply picks up on the light bouncing off of him, and simultaneously transmits it to us all.

He's a wastelander, for sure -- lightly armored, carrying an old shotgun. The biological components of our sensor array can even show us that he's mildly intoxicated. And those arrays can show us that he's more afraid of us than we are of him.

Since we've got the obvious advantage, we all heave a huge sigh of relief, wondering how to get the negotiations rolling.

It's not that we really want anything from these cave dwellers besides co-operation. But wastelanders aren't the most trusting bunch of people in the history of the world; far from it.

As the sad, rhythmic echoes of his wheezing come closer and closer, our commander, with several snipers ready to defend him if needed, takes the lead.

---You can hold it right there. We're armed, but we're peaceful, he blurts out. We mean you no harm. Don't even think of aiming that shotgun. Just tell me your name.

The man is surprised. He looks ready to bolt.

---We've got weapons, food, ammunition, and even some different currencies, our commander continues.

---Call me Isaac, the man says, jaw hardening. How much food do you have?
---I guess your people are dining on mutated bugs these days? Our commander quips.
---It's all that we can easily raise down here for meat, Isaac says.
---We've got plenty of extra rations, comes the reply.
---Welcome. Bless you all, Isaac replies anxiously, leading motioning for us to follow him. Been a long time since any troops have come this way.

Isaac and the commander walk side-by-side, and all of us follow. Our biological sensors show that Isaac is as relieved to meet us as he says he is, but that there's something he's not telling us yet.

Silently, I wonder if this group of wastelanders has had to resort to cannibalism. Fresh human organs can also fetch a high price to the right kind of city buyers, and some caravans are known to trade in them. It's a sad, desolate world. Medical technology has only ushered the remnant of the human race into these dark ages; few people besides military companies like ours have the technology to regenerate tissue and organs. Our biological sensors can even scan local plants for helpful compounds, isolate, purify, and synthesize those if need be.

Before long, Isaac shows us the door of a vault. It's not on any of our maps. That means that this vault was constructed without the US Federal Government's direct supervision or knowledge. 

-------
JOURNAL ENTRY: 10/29/2371, 07:35 GMT-5.

We've spent all day meeting the people who live in Isaac's vault, which they call Vault 27.

According to them, the construction of the vault dates back to the early 21st century, when electric cars were just starting to take over the fossil-fuel-driven economy.

They acknowledge that, astoundingly, neither the government nor the military played a role in its construction.

The story of their vault is kind of hard to believe, but here it is, as it was related to us by the overseer (who simply calls himself The Chief):

Late in the 1800s, when Native Americans were still being forced onto reservations, a few of those so-called Indian nations were still resisting the US Army in surprising, legendary ways.

Chief among those, the Sioux seemed to have some kind of magical power that caused the Army to demonize them and attack their culture.

Those powers didn't come from demons, but from extraterrestrial races who had taken a liking to the Sioux.

Long before even the Spanish colonies began to shape and sculpt the character of the Americas, these extraterrestrials gave the gift of interdimensional travel to the Sioux, the Cree, and to the Utes.


